What about if we want a button and every time you hit that button, you want the paragraph text to change?
So say we've got four or five quotes every time you hit that button, just randomly select one of those
quotes and display it to the screen.
How would we do that?
Well, let's do it together.
So the first step is let's create a brand new full, and it's called this project function advanced.
Within here.
Let's have an index, not each to all fall.
We've been through this.
We know that this is where we have to begin.
This is great to send a template.
And here, let's have a button.
And let's call this button show quote.
And now, once a container where we can show the quotes, and so let's just have an empty paragraph
take for now, we see this online.
Let's just have a look at what looks like.
We should just see an empty button that does nothing when we click.
So show quote, nothing happens.
We haven't defined anything yet, but we know we've got a button below the button.
We can have a paragraph take that is now empty, but that's going to be showing our quotes.
Let's go back to our editor and let's work on our quote.
So let's create again.
Let's just say we've got a public folder.
And within the public folder, it said, we've got your script, your JavaScript, we write tool and
JavaScript.
And in here, we want to shock words.
So let's define a function.
We start with the function key word we call it now, whatever we want, let's just call it show quote.
And within the curly braces, that's where we have all our code, our I'll meet.
And this is where we're going to be getting into using different data types that we've learned.
This is why it's important we learned those things previously and not now.
So the first step is we need a place to store all of our quotes into we.
Would we do that?
How do we do that?
Remember quotes such as strings?
It's going to be the strings all the time.
How can we store multiple quotes?
In an array?
Because in the race, those multiple values.
So let's call our array quotes.
And let's start off by making Honoré empty.
We haven't got any quotes in them yet.
And now let's add all quotes.
How do we add quotes?
Well, we call our.
We state that the first item in the rain or remember, it starts with index zero because it references
where in memory we going to access this from.
And now it's zero.
We're going to access it directly from its very starting point, which is why zero first quote is when
you reach the.
In.
Of your rope, tie a knot in it and hang on.
Let's add another quote to add another quote we access our naira, which now has one item in it, and
now we want it to be the second item in the right.
And this quote can be there is nothing permanent, but change.
There is nothing.
Permanent, but.
Change.
Let's add another quick.
We exercise our right now, we're saying we want it to be the third element and let this quote be something
else.
So luck is a dividend of sweet.
And let's just do one more example, Ray.
We want this to be the fourth element in the array in this court can just be it takes as much energy
to wish as it does to play.
So there we go, we've got our quotes, we've got full quotes within this array.
Now what we wanting to do is we just wanting to display them randomly when this show quote function
is executed, when it's invoked.
How do you do that?
Well, we need to create a random number between zero and three to access each one of these quotes.
Well, let me write down first, then I'll explain to you what it is we've done.
You mean just get rid of this year?
So are we going to do is to find a random variable that keeps changing, and this random variable will
be the one that calls, I'll quote.
All right.
So in effect, it's this rand is going to replace these numbers zero, one, two or three.
That rand will be a number that keeps changing.
It's all we're trying to do.
We can access JavaScript Smith object, and we're going to access the full method on it, which just
makes it a round hole, no, otherwise it's going to produce random numbers that are not a whole number
and we won't be able to access it in our.
That's all that this floor function does.
Then we're going to make excess JavaScript math, random function and because Mess Dot Random produces
a number between zero and one.
We need to multiply by our array length in order to allow this rand variable to take values the same
length as our array.
So that's why we've got to multiply by the quotes length.
And that's it.
We've literally defined our random variable.
Now what is the last step?
So let me just comment this.
You know what's happening?
Create a random number between zero and three.
And now do we have to do?
Well, now we've got an excess of paragraph, remember that paragraph to show you again in the index
file, we've got this paragraph take.
We want to display the quote in that paragraph take.
So, yeah, we have to identify the paragraphs.
Take.
And insert our quote.
Inside it.
OK, great.
So how do we identify the of take?
Well, we've done this in one of the previous lectures, but just to remind you, JavaScript has an
inbuilt get elements by take name method, and that method can be accessed on the document object.
So elements by tag, then we want to get the paragraph and remember what I say before this produces
a node list.
So if we have to actually access the first item on this list, then we want to change that in the tumult
attribute of this paragraph.
And we want that to be equal to what?
That's right.
We access our array of quotes and we pass in this rend variable.
Who and this should be it?
This should work.
Let me just explain.
Well, actually firstly, let's see if it works, and then I'll explain how this whole mess floor mess
random thing works.
So let's go to index page.
You know, if we go back to our website and we click this, nothing's going to happen because we haven't
drawn a link between sticking this button and executing that function.
Which is why we've got to go back to index page.
First thing we need to do is reference our script file and that's in the public folder and it's in a
file called script or.
Now all we have to do is we have to define when the functions called and we're going to do that whenever
the buttons clicked.
So insert on click event on this button and now we need to execute our function.
What did we call our function?
Let's have a look.
We call the function show quick.
So we need to go back to this file and we need to execute.
Should quit.
Whenever the button is clicked, let's see if this works.
Let's go to the website refresh.
It's click on show quote and you go paragraph gets the quote inserted into it, there's nothing permanent
but change, and every time we click on this quote, the changes.
How awesome is this to understand how powerful functions are, we don't have to rewrite code every time
we click a button, it's just executing that function again and again and again.
OK, so you're probably wondering how does this math function work over here?
Rand met Offloor messed up on random, what is all this?
He.